# U4
[Web Application Security]
With web applications integrated into our daily lives web security is critical. It is important for coders using JavaScript to practice security measures for user authentication. There are many types of web vulnerabilities and methods to protect and combat attacks against them. When using javascript it is important to have an understanding of these vulnerabilities. All of our information is becoming digitized which increases cyber attacks.
What is web vulnerability? A website vulnerability is a weakness in a website's code that can be off-target. It can be a misconfiguration in the design of the code or by the implementation. Some common web vulnerabilities are (CRSF) cross-site request forgery. After logging into a site, a victim is forced to act since they have now proven they are trustworthy their actions will go unnoticed. You also have your injection attacks like cross-site scripting (XSS) and SQL injection attacks. XSS redirects users to non-legit websites and SQL steals information from databases.  Attackers will exploit the weaknesses for reasons we've previously talked about. Securing these vulnerabilities It is important to maintain web privacy. Almost all web applications are vulnerable to attacks such as malware. As a coder, it is important to integrate security into your JavaScript to prevent these attacks.
Javascript is a coding language used for creating interactive effects in web browsers. Javascript is not to be confused with Java, tow different languages. When using javascript you should be aware of attacks like cross-origin vulnerabilities as well as the weaknesses previously mentioned. Cross-origin occurs when an application requestsPacketlabs. "Session Management in HTTP: How Does It Work?" Packetlabs, 9 Sep. 2022, www.packetlabs.net/posts/session-management/. Accessed 24 May 2024. a domain different than the intended content.  CORS is a tool used in Java script that controls which domains are allowed to access resources. If not properly configured it results in a CRSF vulnerability. Proper configuration in your code can also combat DDOS attacks. The best practice is to do regular maintenance and monitoring on your sites. This can be done with something like password updating. Input validation is another common practice. This is a set of rules that make sure the incoming data is safe. Input validation is enforced by checking if the format of incoming data is correct. Authentication and authorization is a practice that makes sure users have the correct privileges. Authentication means who you are and authorization means a list of actions a user can access. There are many practices that coders use. 
Techniques are used to protect information. A good way would be to encrypt credentials. session management secures interaction between users and services. sessions track user interaction. This is used to prevent unauthorized access if session use is irregular. Using cookies to send data to a browser for a user maintains information about that user's session. These are also used to track you through browsers to provide certain information.
There are so many kinds of vulnerabilities in web applications you can see why cybersecurity is so important. Attackers have so many points to gain access. As a javascript user, you should be obligated to know the common practices for web security.
Rapid7. "Web Application Vulnerabilities." Rapid7, Rapid7, 2023, www.rapid7.com/fundamentals/web-application-vulnerabilities/. Accessed 24 May 2024.
Chinnasamy, Vinugayathri. "What Is a Website Vulnerability and How Can It Be Exploited?" Indusface Blog, Indusface, 23 Mar. 2024, www.indusface.com/blog/what-is-a-website-vulnerability-and-how-can-it-be-exploited/. Accessed 24 May 2024.
Packetlabs. "Session Management in HTTP: How Does It Work?" Packetlabs, 9 Sep. 2022, www.packetlabs.net/posts/session-management/. Accessed 24 May 2024.
